hey guys welcome to chalk talk Academy
comm today we're going to talk about our
stick concept it's a great quick passing
game concept that horizontally stretch
at the field I think it's a great
concept to have in your offense whether
you're a 1 back team with two back team
double tights whatever I think it's a
great concept that you can start off in
your quick passing game give it to your
quarterbacks and your receivers early in
spring they can work on it throughout
the spring and into the summer and then
you can build from there so we'll take a
look at our concept here we're going to
take a look at our at our stick side
first so we'll talk about our stick
route first so that comes from the
number two spot here on the stick side
so whether he's going to be an attached
tight end or is going to be a detached
tight end you don't want to remove them
too far from the tackle box because
you're going to want to create a good
stretch here between two and three and
three is usually coming from the
backfield here so with our stick route
we run it at five yards there's a slight
in up and you're gonna spit yourself out
at five yards to the stick side the
number one guy is gonna run up must
outside release go right there so if
you're playing a cover to team you're
gonna get that cloud corner to stretch
out horizontally in here to make the
flat area just a little bit bigger
coming from the backfield or you're
using motion but the number three spot
is gonna run an arrow route and he's
gonna get himself into the flat area we
don't talk too much about death we
talked mostly about horizontal width
with that because right here that's
where you're gonna create the horizontal
width where you're gonna your core bags
come in or read that defender in that
area for playing against a leveraged
team so you've got your stick around at
five you've got your arrow out
emphasizing width it's most important
and then to that side the number one
guy's gonna run a must outside or at
least go from a plus Dow position here
on the backside what we're running the
number one spot what we're running right
there is just a simple hitch route at
five yards number two is gonna run a
little spot route right over the guard
and five yards as well so as you can see
as you look across this field it's a
complete horizontal stretch of the whole
defense now from a quarterback
progression standpoint comes up to the
line obviously it's reading safeties and
coverages and just trying to figure out
what's going on his first thought
process is
can you get the football to the hitch
route and we just call that a take it
it's a must take it if you have it if
you've got a soft corner and if you got
a lever defender that's playing inside
of number two let's take that hitch
until they don't give it to us anymore
if that's not part of the equation
it's all right here the way we've been
reading it we've been reading it arrow
to stick and basically what your
quarterbacks is going to do is just
going to get his eyes to this flat
defender he's going to get used to use
good quick game footwork which here we
use a rocker step where the rocker step
get his eyes to the to the flat area and
see if this tailback or this number
three spot can outflank the defense
immediately if he does then we get the
football here if he's getting squeezed
with leverage right here now the window
gets created here for our stick wrap so
it's a very easy concept I think it's
something you can use a lot of different
formations you can use motion but in the
end you've got guys going to the same
spots no matter what formation you use
in or motion adjustments but from the
standpoint the quarterback can you get
the football to the ticket if not he's
going arrow to stick as your quarterback
advances versus some man teams obviously
if you've got press man here and it's
one high this thing is gonna convert to
either a fade or to a go and then here
this thing is going to turn into a
bounce and that's where this guy can
become an option I think there's a
little bit more teaching to go with that
but I think from a standpoint whether
you're in youth football high school
football I think you teach it as you
take this right here and the hitch route
immediately if you have it if not you go
arrow to stick
I just want to break this down a little
bit more here as you can see we're only
gonna take a look at our stick in our in
our tailback coming from the number
three spot getting out into the flat I
think some key coaching points we'll
start with the stick route obviously if
you're not gonna be an attached tight
end you're gonna be a detached tighten
you don't want to remove yourself from
the tackle box that much so maybe it's a
yard and a half maybe it's two two and a
half yards but you don't want to remove
yourself that much with this route
you're gonna have a slight in move up to
five spit yourself out at five it's not
a continuous move as an out route right
there what you're gonna do is you're
gonna find the window just when you spit
yourself out it could happen in one yard
it can happen at two three four but
you're not it's not gonna be a
continuous fluid out route with that
stick route now taking a look at this
arrow route the number one thing we're
going to talk about with this tailback
is he's gonna take a little bit about a
wider alignment so hopefully within your
spread run game you're gonna have an
alignment that your tail back lines up
wide so you can match that with stick so
they the defense can't identify every
time that the tail backs wide that he's
gonna be running a narrow route so you
want to be able to line them up out here
and bring them back this way on an
outside zone or some sort of stretch
play the opposite way so with this route
we don't talk about depth at all they
get one yard that's great in terms of
their route we talked about mostly is
their horizontal width so we don't talk
about them it's all about getting with
what we've got to try and do here is we
want to put a conflict on the defense
between the two and three okay we want
to put a nice horizontal stretch here on
this flat defender so if he squeezes
here and we outflank he gets the
football if he gets wide now what that
does is that creates a window for the
stick so I think a key coaching point is
you're starting to build this into your
offense if you've got to take a hard
look and teach these kids don't remove
yourself too much from the box take a
little bit of a wider line I hereby T
width is more important than depth this
is a five-yard route and the exchange
between two and three on the defense is
crucial
just continuing on here with our stick
concept here I've got a simple empty
package up here three by two empty
package we're going to run our stick
concept we're going to use some motion
right here what we're going to do we're
going to call this our stick side over
here so we're going to know number one
is gonna run up must outside release go
we're gonna use a little bit of motion
right here
we know he becomes the number three spot
he's gonna run his arrow out you bet
you're in up and out at five yards got
your backside you've got a hitch and you
got your backside spot there five yards
just get inside the tackle box so there
there's a simple way line up an empty
you know most defenses want to really
slide to that trip side you're gonna use
some motion you're gonna get those guys
thinking before the snap obviously it
all starts right here if you've got the
take it let's take it if you got the
matchup if defense they're gonna slide
to the trip side you know that that
levers defenders gonna line up inside of
number two take that if you don't have
it simply go arrow to stick another
variation out of empty that we've used
and you'll see video on that as well as
we'll just line up right there three by
two into the boundary will move this guy
over here into the three spot he's gonna
run the arrow it's just another way to
get that defense sliding it can be an
easy take it right here if not you're
simply going one two two right there at
the arrow to stick and you know how it
is it for defenses and empty
you know every week teams are gonna have
a different way to defend empty and you
just got to figure out how you can take
advantage of it some people keep it
simple some teams will bring pressure if
they're gonna bring pressure obviously
they're going to try and bring six
they've only got five to cover it's
quick passing game you should be able to
get it out but you should be able to get
your one-on-one matchups here or you
could get something here with it with
with their own little rub right there as
you're getting this defender to move
over here if they don't bounce you're
gonna get a natural rub right there to
get the ball to the flat so there's a
couple variations for our stick concept
you